Well today I feel like working on the boots.
I don't know why do we really need a reason.
I think I'm going to just start working on one of these boots here.
I don't exactly know what they look like.
This drawing doesn't give me a whole lot of information but I've got some reference images of boots
up on my screen around Blendr here to take a look at.
And I thought I just began working on this.
So first of all let's get some base geometry for the boot that we can use to sculpt on.
I'm not going to sculpt directly on the character here.
I want to duplicate some faces and create some new geometry.
So what I'll do is I'll come back to object mode and I'll turn off the multi rez modifier for now by
clicking here on the eyeball.
And if we select this we can see that here is the base geometry we created at the beginning.
I'm going to go to my character images view here and go to wireframe press Schiff's see to frame up
the whole thing.
Let's take a look at the boots down here.
So it looks like if I duplicated I'm going to press the key for border select.
If I duplicated all of this I could use this as the base geometry of the boot.
I'm going to come back here to my default view.
Now I don't need both sides of this so I'm going to go back into wireframe and just de-select everything
with a hit B again and just select this one side.
All right so now I'm going to duplicate this with chiff D.
And now I've got duplicate faces there going to press the P key and separate those duplicate faces out
into their own object.
So I'll press the P key and hit selection.
And now I should be able to see a new object over here.
Here it is character 0 0 0 0 1.
I can call this boot.
And that will be what we'll use to create our boots.
Now I'm going to isolate it with shift H for now and zoom in a bit and I would like to close off the
top.
I think it might help in the sculpting to have it all one piece so I'm going to go to edge mode press
Alt click that edge to select that entire edge loop and I'm going to just hit the for extrude and click
and then scale this in a bit and maybe just do easy and click and then I'll merge those together with
Allt M and click at center.
So now we've got that piece ready to go.
All right I'll go back to object mode with Tab key press.
All it takes to bring back the character and what I'd like to do is let's take this character let's
reapply the multi rez modifier to him Nalut select the boot and I'm going to apply a multi rez modifier
to that one.
I already have it here but I don't want that sculped information on that.
I just don't want that I want to begin with a new multi rez modifier.
I mean if I click this and turn it on it'll be exactly the same shape as the foot.
And I don't really want that.
So I'm going to get rid of this modifier and I'll add a new one.
And let's subdivide this oh let's first do it once here maybe twice.
And we go and I'll hit smooth over here just to make sure.
And so there is the beginning of our boot.
Now what I need to do is just sculpt this out to match our foot.
So when they come over here to the sculped mode and let's take a look at how we want to do this.
Now you know what.
Now that I think about it I might want to come back and adjust these points here.
I think they were a little bit too high.
Let me see.
What we can do here.
I'm going to Borders select these.
And if we go back into our character images screen lay out.
Yeah I want to move that down just a bit.
Not like that.
So back in sculped mode.
Now let me take a look at these images.
So what we need to do is pull this out and get it arranged so it's fitting around the foot a little
bit better.
Maybe I'll use my grab brush.
Let's try this.
We could use any number of brushes here but for now I think I'll try this.
So I just want to begin pulling these out just a little bit.
Actually maybe I'll begin with the scope draw so I can see it a little bit better.
And just began bringing this out just a little bit like this
continue a little bit more with the grab brush here just trying to pull it out and getting it ready
getting at the proper shape here.
Now one thing I could do is turn on x ray for the boot here.
Let's try that.
I'm going to come over here and go to this object panel and if I scroll down and choose x ray you can
see I can kind of see it through the object here.
So I can kind of play with it a little bit in here and sculpt it a bit and let me go back to the grab
brush now that I've got x ray on and just pull this out a bit something like that.
All right.
Let's actually try and turn on x ray for the for the for the body here.
Let's try that turn that on.
You can kind of see it works a little bit like that.
It's not bad.
If we know if we need it we can use that.
But I'm going to go with this for now.
All right
and for right now I think I'll go ahead and hide the body.
So I'm going to select just the boot and move it to a new layer maybe layer 3 here like that and just
go to layer 3.
So a couple of things I want to do I want to make the instep here punch this in just a little bit
and bring this side in some two
and I'll try and flatten the soul a little bit.
Move out the toes.
And try and get a general shape like a foot here from the bottom now that I've got a very basic rough
shape.
I think what I'll do is go ahead and add another subdivision here.
So if I go back to the multi rez modifier I'm going to add a subdivision here maybe up to three and
with that I can start maybe working on some of the wrinkles and creases in the boot because I think
it's kind of leathery.
I'm not exactly sure I should be I should probably be a little bit more sure of these kinds of things.
But I think it's somewhat leathery so I'm going to begin just laying down what could be wrinkles along
these areas here.
Still not enough subdivision let me give it one more.
And then we can begin getting a little bit of wrinkles here so I'm going to start by just going over
the top here and I'll sculpt one normal struck by that pulls out and then I'll hold control and cut
in.
And then another one that comes out and then control to cut it in.
So just kind of using that method to try and get something that looks like wrinkles here.
And as I said I do have several images of boots up on my screen to try and keep track of what I'm doing.
I'm not using any particular one just using them as kind of a guideline.
Now as you work on something like this you can actually change the way the stroke lays down on the object.
So if I come over here to curve and I'm in this sculped draw brush now I can change the way the curve
happens so this is like the top of the stroke and this is the side and down at the bottom of the stroke
so we can change how this happened so I can just show you what I mean if I stroke here you can see that
we're getting that kind of bell curve to the stroke.
If I do that and I come back over here to say just this and make it flat you can see we're getting more
of a flat stroke.
Now it's hard to see without more subdivisions on it.
Let me just add one here.
There you can see that's more flat.
Right.
If we do this one say it'll be more curved.
So you can really get a different kind of stroke from playing with these different curves.
You can also just take one and drag it around and make one of your own too.
And I'm going to think about I'm thinking about these straps now.
I'm not exactly sure what I'm going to do with these if I'm going to build these external geometry around
the boot or if I can use something like this sculpt draw a brush with this flat curve and maybe just
hint at it like this.
I'm not sure if that's going to be possible.
I mean I could just come around like this and build it up like that.
So it gets the hint of a strap but it's not really giving me those sharp edges that I'd want if I increase
the subdivision even more up here like this and tried this.
I might get a little bit more edge to it but it's kind of rough.
I'm not sure that I want to do that and I could flatten it I guess and I could also use the pinch tool
to pinch the edges like this.
So that's something to think about I could maybe build up all of the straps in this way and maybe I'll
work on that.
I think I'll do a few more tests to see.
And this is sometimes what you have to do just kind of test one way or another to see what's going to
be more efficient or more interesting realistic whatever you're looking for.
So I hope that's been helpful.
I'm sure having fun creating this character will keep moving forward in the next videos.